[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: No field
is more fraught with illusion,
delusion, and disinformation
than that of ufology
and the study of
extraterrestrials.
Greg Bishop has been
trying to unravel
the threads of these
intriguing topics,
along with the eccentric
characters that populate
this field of research.
We'll attempt to untangle some
of this in this conversation.
It's-- I mean, you know, we're
going to go back a little bit
in time to some of
the earlier stuff.
In fact, we're going
back in time in general,
kind of looking at what set the
stage for this absolute melee
that we're
experiencing right now.
It's a freak show.
>>GREG BISHOP: Yeah.
Well, it's always been.
It's just a different
format with it now
and information flies
so fast, so these things
can develop-- instead
of over years,
they'll develop
over days, you know.
>> REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
So first of all, what got
you kind of down that path
with this phenomenon?
What intrigued you and really
took you down the rabbit hole?
>>BISHOP: Usually that question
I answer by saying my father
used to take us to the
library when I was a kid--
my sister and I were kids.
>> REGINA: It's like, what?
The library?
>>BISHOP: Yeah, exactly.
He said, "Pick up
two or three books
and we will bring them back next
week after you have read them,
so you will be reading them."
I don't know why--
I went to the first section
of the library, which
is all the UFO books,
when I was six--
>> REGINA: Really?
>>BISHOP: --five years old.
And from five years old
probably up to about 10,
I read every single UFO,
Bigfoot, and ghost book
in the library.
And then we went to--
>> REGINA: I mean,
that's interesting.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
We went to another library
and I found the books
that I hadn't read in that
one, and I read those, too.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: And I don't know
why I was interested in that.
I read other things,
too, you know.
I read fiction and I read other
children's books and all that,
but I'm reading Jacques Vallee
when I'm eight years old.
>> REGINA: Oh, boy.
That's precocious.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
I love it.
>>BISHOP: And I
don't even know if I
understood what I was reading,
but it was intriguing to me.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: And then
that continued in life.
Actually, I forgot about it
until after I left college.
After I finished
college and I had
a period of deep depression--
like suicidal depression--
and somehow the
subject came back,
and it might have saved
my life, because I
started writing about it.
>> REGINA: Why
were you depressed?
What happened?
>>BISHOP: A girlfriend
left me and a guy
I was working with who
was a friend of mine
kicked me out of his office
for no discernible reason
and locked all the doors.
>> REGINA: Oh, and
you're a young guy,
and that stuff gets hard.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, I was
20 when that happened.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: So it was--
>> REGINA: The girlfriend
leaving you is enough to--
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: --for suicidal
tendencies and that age.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
Well, she cheated on me
and left, and then I--
>> REGINA: Oh, god.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, exactly.
>> REGINA: Love, betrayal.
>>BISHOP: But of course,
it never happens to me.
Yeah.
And you know, I was a
depressive type anyway.
You know, I had to work
myself out of that, too, but--
>> REGINA: Then you rediscovered
your passion for these
subjects.
>>BISHOP: Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah, and I started writing
about it, so I wrote an article
and a little magazine
published it,
and then I went on from there.
>> REGINA: So was it just a
matter of raw intrigue for you,
or was it-- were you really
attempting to find some kind
of truth amidst it?
>>BISHOP: I think if you
try to find some truth in it
and this--
I didn't realize that then.
That's kind of a
losing proposition.
What you try to do is--
what I've done is
look for understanding
more than an answer,
and even more valuable
is I've met so many cool
people and nice people
and intelligent people that
just have floated me up
to their level, and that
is what is amazing to me.
That's the most amazing
thing about the subject--
not what the answer might be.
Just the experience of
being involved with it.
And you know, I'm not writing
books on all this stuff
because I want to be famous
or get on TV or you know--
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: That's kind of--
it's like window dressing
to the main thing, which
is connection with people
and learning about things that
most people don't know too much
about.
>> REGINA: True, and the
common perception, at large,
is that people that are into
this wear tinfoil hats and are
fruits-- all the fruits
and nuts, as they say,
roll to California in
the UFO community, right?
>>BISHOP: Mm-hmm.
>> REGINA: And in fact, you're
talking about a lot of very,
very highly-educated,
highly-placed individuals
around the planet that
are involved with this--
certainly where the intelligence
agencies come in, and I really
want to get into that.
>>BISHOP: OK.
>> REGINA: That part of it.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, and a
lot of those people,
rightly so, just keep--
they keep their
interest very quiet.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>>BISHOP: I'm trying
to do that more now.
I-- like a lot of people
that are into this,
I know far more people than I
ever talk about or say, look,
I know this person, or--
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BISHOP: It's-- you're
doing all this quiet research
and making these personal
contacts with people,
and you're giving them
information they may not
necessarily know, they're giving
you information you may not
necessarily know, and neither
of us are using it to get rich
or famous or to cheat
the other, or whatever.
We're just trying to learn
things from each other,
and that to me, is another
valuable part of it--
just the access to somebody you
can ask a question directly.
That's why I started the
magazine with my friends--
"Excluded Middle."
Nobody ever said no
to an interview, which
I was completely surprised by
that, and some of these people
became friends.
I mean, really,
really smart people
who I couldn't understand
why they were even
giving me the time of day.
So--
>> REGINA: Well, what is
the common bond between you?
Between-- because I have
friends in that community
as well, and for you,
what is the common bond
that you all share?
>>BISHOP: Curiosity,
mistrust of authority,
not liking being told
what to think or do.
>> REGINA: OK.
Got it.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
>>BISHOP: I think
that's a big part of it.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: I think so, too.
I mean, those are my
personality traits as well,
so maybe that's why I have
friends in the community
as well.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, yeah.
>> REGINA: And this whole thing
about having the right to be
able to freely examine
all information--
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: You know, and
make your own mind up--
sovereignty is huge in this.
>>BISHOP: Right.
Exactly.
And you know, I believe
very little of it.
I take stock in
very little of it,
but I'm interested in
just about all of it.
>> REGINA: But you're not
saying that you're really along
the line of the skeptics.
You know, the
well-known TV skeptics.
>>BISHOP: I am
skeptical, but I'm not
a fundamentalist skeptic.
Skeptical means you don't make
a conclusion about something
until you have enough of
the facts in front of you
to make an informed decision.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>BISHOP: And as you
know and a lot of people
probably know, a
lot of this stuff,
you can't make a
determination about it.
You just have to
remain interested.
There's something
in the latest book
I wrote where I said I think
a really good attitude for UFO
study is total interest
and total agnosticism.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
No, that makes sense,
because it requires
that degree of
commitment just for you
to be able to dig down and
ferret out these little pieces
from obscure or secret sources.
>>BISHOP: Right.
>> REGINA: You know.
>>BISHOP: I don't
get a hold of one
and say, this is what it is.
I mean, I tell people that.
It's like, as soon
as somebody tells you
they know what's going on,
run away from them very fast.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
I totally-- any kind
of proclamations--
this is the way, this is
what's going to happen next--
run like heck.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK, let's talk about
what happened the beginning
of-- this particular book,
you did an essay on Bill Moore
and the infamous speech
he made at MUFON.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Let's talk about it.
It's a good place to dive
into the Intelligence,
and because they figure
prominently in both information
and disinformation.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
I get asked lots of
questions about Bill Moore.
I met him very soon after--
while I was working
at that friend's place
that he kicked me out of--
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: That office was a
block from Bill Moore's office.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>>BISHOP: In 1987--
>> REGINA: So let's talk
about who he is-- yeah, '87.
Let's talk about it.
Don't be vain.
Let's talk about who he is and
what the speech was-- what--
>>BISHOP: All right.
>> REGINA: The contents of
the speech and why this was
so fundamental.
>>BISHOP: Right.
He was a UFO researcher.
I knew him as that.
I contacted him.
My perspective of
it was a couple
of months before the talk, which
was 1989, MUFON, Las Vegas,
was that he said-- all
he told me is, "I'm
going to blow their socks off."
"Well, what are you
going to say, Bill?"
"Ah, I can't tell you.
I mean, I'm still
working on the talk."
So we get to this--
get to MUFON.
He actually asked me if
I could please take over
and help at his book table.
But during the talk,
I went in and watched.
That speech was the
best public speech
I've ever seen on anything--
not even just UFOs.
>> REGINA: Oh, enlighten us.
>>BISHOP: Because of the--
because of the reaction.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: There were
rumors flying around
that he was involved with
Intelligence, which he was.
That he was involved in trying
to discredit Paul Bennewitz,
which he wasn't--
at least, not from
his point of view.
The rumors were so bad
that half the people
at the convention
that were speakers
broke off and had
their own convention.
John Lear, Bill Cooper--
people like that.
>> REGINA: What did
that convention become?
What was the name of
the other convention?
>>BISHOP: I don't remember.
>> REGINA: And where
did the International--
>>BISHOP: It was the Alternate
New MUFON Convention.
>> REGINA: Where did the
International UFO Congress come
into this?
>>BISHOP: They weren't that--
it wasn't at the UFO Congress.
Those people have all spoken at
the International UFO Congress,
with the exception
possibly of Bill Moore.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's go ahead.
Let's figure-- let's
continue on with his story.
>>BISHOP: So he comes up with
all this anticipation about
what he's going to say, and--
>> REGINA: What was the crowd
expecting he would talk about?
>>BISHOP: They were
expecting that he was going
to talk about his involvement.
Not only did he talk
about his involvement,
he talked about other things
that they did not expect,
didn't know about, and
when I talked to him later,
I said, "Would you
have changed any way
about how you presented
that information, given
the-- you know, in hindsight?"
And he said, "Yeah,
I think I would have
been a little less arrogant."
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>BISHOP: And the
reason he was is
because he had so many
accusations thrown at him.
People didn't know what
they were talking about,
had no idea what was
going on with him,
and were making things up and
accusing him of the things
that they'd made up.
That's why he was irritated.
And I must say that
he's a friend of mine.
He's been a friend of
mine since the late '80s.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>BISHOP: People say,
why do you trust him?
He's a disinformation--
this and that.
I trust him because
he's a friend,
and I've never
caught him in a lie
or telling me anything
that he shouldn't or that
was inaccurate.
I mean, you trust
your friends, right?
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: And he's
not a monster.
He's just a UFO researcher.
>> REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>BISHOP: But what
he did say is, "Look.
I was involved with
Paul Bennewitz.
You know I was, but this
is how I was involved."
>> REGINA: But we're going
to get into his story too.
>>BISHOP: Right.
>> REGINA: The
revelations in this--
what would've been the
outcome of his participation
with the Intelligence
community and the UFO field?
What did he contribute?
>>BISHOP: Oh, well, what
he contributed, I think,
was that he told everybody,
look don't trust people
from the government
when they tell you
they're telling you secrets
that they're only telling you.
You're not special.
It's for a completely
different set of circumstances
than you even think
that it's for.
It's basically just to steer
you in a direction-- a group
of people in a direction--
and to cover up
basically national security
issues, exotic technology,
things like that.
Not necessarily having
to do with aliens,
deals with aliens for
technology in exchange
for abductions--
anything like that.
>> REGINA: It's just a sideshow
distraction for anything that
the government wishes or
military wishes to cover up
at that time?
>>BISHOP: Yes.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: And having to do with
their projects, not because--
I don't think the military is
out to say that they know what
the UFO subject is and they know
what extra human consciousness
is or anything like that.
I think they probably do.
I also think they're
extremely confused about it,
and they can't do
anything about it
and they don't know
how to explain it.
That's the cover-up, not that
they know what's going on.
You know, that was one
of the lessons I think
that came out of that speech.
And people were
yelling at him, people
ran out of the room crying--
>> REGINA: Because they thought
they were in the know about
something.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, exactly.
They just said that they
felt they had been duped.
They felt they
had been betrayed,
because basically he said,
"Look, I-- they told me--
they asked me about
other researchers
and what they were doing and
what they were thinking."
And he said, "And
I didn't tell you
anything about this because
I was part of my deal.
I was getting information."
He broke the MJ-12 documents.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: Which he now believes
are complete fabrication.
At that time, he didn't.
>> REGINA: Well, tell me
what the implication was
of introducing the MK Ultra--
MJ--
>>BISHOP: MJ-12.
>> REGINA: --MJ-12
documents to--
>>BISHOP: Well, the implication
was that the government knew
what the UFO subject
was about, had known
about it since
the Roswell crash,
and there was a group in the
government that controlled
all this information.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: There may be--
I don't think it's MJ-12.
>> REGINA: But why did he
believe then over time that
they were giving him
this information?
>>BISHOP: He knew that there--
he was getting disinformation
right from the beginning.
He knew that.
>> REGINA: But he
spread it anyway?
Was it a deal he
made or something?
>>BISHOP: No, he actually
put out a book set
called "The MJ-12 Documents."
Examined each document
and said, is this true?
Is it false?
What is the evidence
we have for this?
And something like a third
to a half of the documents,
he said either false
or inconclusive.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>BISHOP: So he tried
to be honest about it.
He didn't--
>> REGINA: How did
he work both sides?
If he's with-- if he's
playing with and receiving
information--
disinformation from the
intelligence community
and yet ratting
it out, how did he
continue any kind
of relationship?
>>BISHOP: He ratted it out--
right.
He ratted it out, as
you say, after his--
basically he found out
all he could by 1989.
>> REGINA: OK.
>>BISHOP: He wasn't
finding out anything new
so he said-- and then he went to
the people he was working with
and said, "Look, I'm going
to give a speech about this
and what happened."
And they said, "Sure.
Fine.
Go ahead."
So you know, it was with the
OK of the people he was working
with, because they
just said look,
this operation is
finished, we don't really
care what people think about
it, and we're moving on.
So Bill was able to talk
about it at that point.
And actually, I think he was
trying to do everybody a favor,
even though it was a backhanded
favor, by saying look,
this is what happens.
I know because I was
in the middle of it.
Other people are
involved with it.
Researchers are
involved with it,
and I'm not at liberty
to say who they are,
because it's their business, and
you should watch out for this.
This is prevalent, or at
least it was back then.
>> REGINA: OK.
One of the things I
observe repeatedly-- now,
I haven't been in this
as long as you have.
I started maybe 20
years ago just--
19 to 20 years ago going
to all the conferences
and meeting with them, because
I was a journalist then, too,
and talking about
this and so forth.
But one thing that
comes up a lot--
not that different
from society at large,
but maybe more prominently
by a bit, is ego--
the need for the
people in the industry
to feel like they're gods
dispensing godly information,
and they'll almost sell their--
>>BISHOP: Which industry?
You mean the Intelligence?
>> REGINA: Ufology.
>>BISHOP: Oh, yeah, ufology.
>>BISHOP: That's a
huge problem, is ego.
>> REGINA: Well, that's why
I want to bring that up,
because there are other people
who are more modest that--
well, like John Mack
was pretty modest man--
he was a good man who took it
on as a project at Harvard--
you know, clinical research--
to find out about the
abductee phenomena.
Was there any truth?
Was there commonality
to these experiences?
Which he found there was.
And then what happened to
his life, trying to be--
they tried to strip
him of tenure.
Danny Sheehan came in and shook
things up and kept him in place
at Harvard.
Head of Clinical
Psychology-- that's
crazy that they would go
that far, because he dared
have an open enough mind to
go into that area of research,
right?
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But he's rare.
>> REGINA: He's rare.
Let's talk about the
norm in that field.
>>BISHOP: Mm, I think the
norm is people getting
into it because they think they
can get people to pay attention
to them.
>> REGINA: I'd agree.
>>BISHOP: And the
problem becomes, even
subconsciously, what can I get
into that gets the most people
to pay attention to me, and
gets me on the most TV shows,
and gets me in the most news
interviews and all that?
Not what I think is
the most important,
or what might contribute
to understanding.
All it is is how do you
get people to pay attention
to yourself.
And I was at Roswell this last--
about two weeks ago for
the 70th anniversary.
I was giving a talk,
and I keep seeing
at every conference I
go to, if I'm speaking,
I can see those people, and I
don't pay any attention to them
and I don't talk
to them, because I
get nothing out of them.
I'm not going to go out
and start telling people,
I don't think this
person-- you know.
It's-- my job is not the
whistleblower or cutting people
down.
>> REGINA: The whistleblower
on the whistleblower.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
Cutting people down, all that's.
So you know what?
If that person's going
to do their thing,
there is no way for me to
really make any dent in that,
because people--
once you start telling people,
this person is probably not
really-- have-- doesn't have
all their ducks in a row,
and they're like--
that just makes people more--
their belief gets strengthened.
>> REGINA: They're entrenched.
Yes.
>>BISHOP: Yeah,
they get entrenched,
so it's kind of
like, you know what?
They're going to do their thing.
So I pay attention
to people that I
like, people that I think that
have good thought process,
have-- and are
not too ego-based.
In fact, the less
ego, the better.
And I mean, I try to
do the same thing.
If you could get ego out of--
if you could get
ego out of life--
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: --out of
ufology, I think
a lot more useful
information would come--
would rise to the surface.
>> REGINA: I agree.
So how does the
Intelligence community,
from your understanding, because
you've known some spooks, too,
right?
And how do they go
about using the egotists
in this field as tools?
>>BISHOP: You almost answered
the question by saying it.
You use somebody's ego and
their sense of self-importance
to pass some information
or disinformation,
or-- well, disinformation
is information
that seems to make sense
that has mostly BS in it,
but a little bit of truth.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: So if you
check up on the truth,
you're like, oh,
because then they
can hang the whole rest of the
thing on that one little bit
of truth.
>> REGINA: That
particle of truth.
Yeah.
>>BISHOP: And if a
government insider,
or somebody that says they
are and can prove it to you,
because they'll tell you
something that most people
don't know and you can
check it out yourself--
if they come to
you and they say,
I'm going to tell you
something about the UFO field
or about UFOs that
nobody else knows,
you're going to be
having exclusive access
to this information.
I'm going to be your conduit
for this information-- me
and maybe a group of people.
Huge ego flattering,
and then it doesn't even
matter what they say anymore,
because that person feels
like, hey I'm special.
And if you can feel-- if that
person can keep you on the
"I feel like I'm special
and I'm getting information
that nobody else is,"
it doesn't matter
if it's true or false-- they're
going to keep spreading it.
>> REGINA: That's the
first thing I warn people.
Anyone who says they're the
only one in the know, run.
Don't listen.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: It's BS.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, exactly.
So you know, I'm more
interested in people
that quietly tell me things.
It's like, did you hear this?
Did you have any--
some-- a friend of mine
will come to me and say,
have you heard about this?
What do you think of it?
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: And it's not on the
shows, it's not in the news.
Nobody's written
articles about it,
but we'll check with each other.
And you know what?
90% of that stuff--
more than that.
95% of that stuff turns
out to be nothing.
But these interactions
with people--
you know, with these people--
these sub rosa interactions,
it adds to my understanding
personally, which as like I
said earlier, that's
kind of why I'm into it.
I'm trying to get
some understanding.
And if I frame as
understanding and not answers,
I think you learn a lot more,
because if you're looking
for an answer, what happens?
You start narrowing down to,
what answers my question?
>> REGINA: You're looking
for evidence to support
your belief.
>>BISHOP: No, I'm looking
for understanding--
>> REGINA: No, I'm saying
when you're doing that.
>>BISHOP: Oh, exactly.
Yes.
>> REGINA: You're looking for
evidence to support what you
believe to be true.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, and
you get blinders.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>>BISHOP: And you don't--
you might miss something very
important, because you
just filtered that out,
because it doesn't answer this
question that you have that
the answer is encoded within.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
OK, this brings up
just so many questions.
[BOTH LAUGH]
I mean, we have a
script here and we've
got to get around
to Paul Bennewitz
and what happened there,
because that actually
flows into something else.
But I can't help asking--
>>BISHOP: Ready for anything.
>> REGINA: OK.
So your perspective--
Project Serpo.
>>BISHOP: I can't even
remember what year that was.
Early 2000s, I think.
>> REGINA: 2005,
2004, something--
>>BISHOP: Yeah,
something like that.
A story came out
and this eventually
ended up on "Coast to Coast" and
all of the shows and all that--
was that there was an exchange
program sometime in the 1970s,
I believe it was, where
aliens left a few aliens here
and some astronauts went to
another planet in an exchange
program, a la
"Close Encounters,"
like the end of
"Close Encounters."
>> REGINA: Zeta
Reticuli, I think.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, yeah.
And that Zeta
Reticuli thing started
because of the Barney and Betty
Hill thing and the Marjorie
Fish star map where she said,
"I think it's Zeta Reticuli."
So all the-- a
lot of the stories
got pointed towards
Zeta Reticuli.
Anyway, the gist of it
was these two astronauts
went to the planet Serpo
for nine years or something
and returned--
some of them returned.
A couple of them stayed there.
I think one of them
died on the planet,
and then the aliens
went back to--
>> REGINA: One died
in space [INAUDIBLE]
>>BISHOP: Yeah, or
something like that.
One of them went
back to our planet.
One, it sounds totally
ridiculous to me.
Two, and even more important,
there's absolutely zero way
to prove this happened.
And three, why would
they even-- why
would somebody be saying this?
I talked to a few
people that I knew,
and they said, well this has
basically all the earmarks
of an intel operation--
basically to pass
messages back and forth.
And this was proven
to me, really,
because the guy that
they had at first doing--
in the email list,
spreading these stories--
Victor Martinez-- he
was an English teacher.
>> REGINA: I was going
to say, a schoolteacher.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: And I think he
was an English teacher,
but anyway, they would send
him these things, that-- you
know, like, you're the guy.
We're going to have you
spread this incredible story.
But the messages went out
and he started editing
them, because they--
the punctuation was wrong,
they had some wrong spellings,
the grammar, and all that--
And they told him please
do not change any of this.
We do not want you to change
any of what we've written.
We don't care if it sounds
better the way you wrote it
or if there is--
and the only reason
I could think
of after talking to people
about this a little bit was--
some people in the know--
was that if you're trying to
send a message to somebody
in some coded way,
everything in that message
is very important, or at
least certain parts of it
are, to decode the message.
Somebody was trying to
communicate something
through the UFO community, find
out who was interested in it,
and find out if they
were trying to decode it.
And if they did decode
it, they could find out
who had decoded it,
because they'd find it
in their intel traffic--
you know, in--
>> REGINA: So the story was
released with an intended kind
of recipient on the other end.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, I think.
It was either released as--
with a recipient on the end,
or as an attempt to
see who was interested,
and if they could figure out
the code, who those people were,
because they most certainly
weren't UFO researchers.
>> REGINA: Hmm.
>>BISHOP: You know.
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's
interesting because again,
it seems that Intelligence--
if you go to the
Stephenville event, right?
>>BISHOP: Mm-hmm.
>> REGINA: And what Ken Cherry
is saying is that Intelligence
is really more interested in
the people that are interested
in this phenomena--
>>BISHOP: Exactly.
>> REGINA: --and
how to manipulate--
>>BISHOP: And who they know.
>> REGINA: Who knows who and how
you manipulate perception, too.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, exactly.
And manipulating
perception away from what
they don't want people to look
at, which is probably some--
again, a-- either
an intel operation,
some kind of exotic technology,
or like aircraft or something
like that--
just something
you're working on.
Some people know about it, some
foreign powers know about it,
but you want to know which
foreign powers and who
in that chain is
sending that information
to the foreign powers, because
then you can find those people,
grab them and arrest them.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: And shut off
that information conduit
to a hostile foreign power.
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
That makes sense, and certainly
the public perception part
makes sense--
is they can either participate
in an event with exotic
technologies and then plant
information that this was
an actual visitation
from elsewhere,
just to see how the public's--
and that was what I found
interesting about Stephenville,
to watch how the public would
respond, because they went
in and immediately started
investigating the people.
>>BISHOP: Right.
>> REGINA: Now-- and it was
a psychological profiling
of the person.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: That's fascinating.
So in your opinion, if it's
being used in this way--
if events, you know, are
being used in this way,
what would you guess to
be perhaps one or more
of the agendas involved?
>>BISHOP: My only thinking
on the agenda is, one,
like I said, to--
>> REGINA: Besides fleshing
people out that may be able
to discern--
>>BISHOP: Right, right.
>> REGINA: The average person.
>>BISHOP: From my
perspective, I don't really
think that most people
in government care
what the average person
thinks, unless it has something
to do with the power structure
or Defense, or Intelligence.
Other than that, I don't really
think the people in power
really--
>> REGINA: Then why would they
go to the trouble to analyze
and collect data on the
way people felt when they
experience this?
>>BISHOP: Because it's
useful data that can be used
for something else,
whether it be for--
>> REGINA: That's
what I'm asking.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
It can be used for--
what happens to
people when they're
faced with something
that is either unknown
or there's a belief
system already in place?
>> REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
>>BISHOP: And let's find out
what happens in real time with
this, and we can use it either
for another operation or if you
really want it to
be conspiratorial,
if they have to reveal
something that's--
that they have no control over
that's not human, which I think
there is something like that.
I just don't know
what form it takes.
And we can get into
that later, but it's a--
>> REGINA: No, go ahead, because
that makes perfect sense to me.
I'm more interested
in human sovereignty.
I do not like agendas being
perpetuated against humanity.
I do not like mass
manipulation of humanity.
>>BISHOP: Right.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: So I'm interested
at that higher level,
and so I'm interested to
know what you have to say.
>>BISHOP: Well, my idea
is what's going on is that
the government, or whatever
the power structure is--
maybe not invested
in the government,
but most people watching this
already believe that or realize
it--
I think that they
know that there
is something going on that's
not human that interacts with us
occasionally.
I'm pretty sure
that's happening.
I could be wrong, but all
evidence and everybody I've
talked to, and all the
literature and all that points
to there's something
that's not human
that's doing stuff
with us occasionally.
>> REGINA: I think our audience
that's watching right now is
comfortable with that.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: I mean,
they might not like it.
I'm saying they're comfortable
with that assumption.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, exactly.
I'm not going--
I don't really go any further
than that because then I
start making assumptions.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: But I think that the
power structure knows this.
They don't know
what to do about it,
they don't know
how to control it,
but they do know how to control
people's perception of it.
There's not too many--
I don't think a majority of
the population, or at least
the people that have any
kind of say in anything--
I don't think that they're
on board with that idea.
Like if you're a scientist
or an academician,
or just people who determine
what we think is real--
they're not on
board with that yet.
There's probably far more
people in the population that
are on board with it than
the people that are probably
telling us what we should think.
>> REGINA: Right.
The quote "authorities."
>>BISHOP: Yeah, exactly.
So as long as those
people who are
in charge of making sure that--
what our reality
is supposed to be--
as long as those
people don't really
think there's anything to the
subject, there's no problem.
>> REGINA: I mean, I'm always
interested in, why do they want
to know that?
What is it they're going to
try to manipulate with that?
That's always a concern.
And I know that the
right hand often
doesn't know what the
left hand is doing,
but there are specific
projects where
a plan is rolled out from
manipulations-- you know,
perception.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, and
I think it's usually
having to do with
normal, mundane things
that we all know about.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: But for not normal,
non-mundane things that we
don't know about, I think if
it becomes obvious to people
that something's going
on, which with the way
our brains are made
up now and the way
we deal with things,
the way our lives are,
I don't think we can perceive
this weirdness in the way that
is close to what it is.
I don't even know what it
is, but I think it's low
on the agenda because it's just
not something that's-- it might
be on the horizon--
where somebody has
to say something.
Say look, this is what this is.
>> REGINA: So what is your
perception of disclosure?
Let's go to Steven Greer.
As to begin, because he
did the first disclosure.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
My perception of at
least the concept
that people like Steven
Greer and Steve Bassett
have as disclosure is, you
are asking for something
that if you get the answer and
it's not the answer you want,
you're going to cry cover up.
So--
>> REGINA: So it's
a no-win situation.
>>BISHOP: It's a no-win
situation for them.
It's kind of like,
I'm going to go
to Dad, who I don't
trust with anything else
and ask him to tell me
the truth about something.
That-- it's
cognitively dissonant,
saying something
like that-- to me.
>> REGINA: And yet at the
same time, I was also--
I was present for
Disclosure in D.C. that day,
and was behind the
scenes with them,
and I did see these little
old men with their medals
and epaulettes,
in tears-- shaking
because they were breaking
their National Security oaths.
>>BISHOP: Right.
>> REGINA: They
did know something,
and I believe they were telling
what they knew to be true.
>>BISHOP: Right.
>> REGINA: And so--
>>BISHOP: I don't know.
I mean, I trust them,
but I wasn't there,
and there's no way for me to
confirm what they're saying,
except that they're--
>> REGINA: But I'm saying--
>>BISHOP: They're supposedly
trustworthy people.
>> REGINA: Yeah, let's say
most of these witnesses,
which that--
there was a lot done
to really ferret out
those particular witnesses.
Again, Danny Sheehan's
name comes up
because he was part of
the ferreting process.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So what happens when
you have a collective of them
that come up and they have 10 to
15 minutes to tell their truth
in front of this audience--
a roomful of reporters?
What is, in the highest sense,
the best that can come of that?
>>BISHOP: Opening
the door another 1/16
of an inch of a
crack with people
who are on the fence about it.
>> REGINA: That's kind of what
I think Danny Sheehan would say
also on that.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, and--
>> REGINA: It's
really not-- there--
everyone's so hopeful that
the day of disclosure--
that was disclosure.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: That was a
huge disclosure by a lot
of military--
>>BISHOP: Yeah, well,
it's already happened,
and it's really not
affected anything.
>> REGINA: It's
already happened.
There's nothing--
>>BISHOP: I
interviewed-- no matter
what you think of Grant Cameron,
I interviewed him on my show
once about four or five years
ago, and the title of the show
was "Disclosures
Happened Already."
>> REGINA: That's
what I keep saying.
It's already-- it's done.
It's happened.
>>BISHOP: So it doesn't
really-- it doesn't really
matter to a lot of people,
and you know, at this point
I'm thinking the only way to get
more people thinking that this
is a real thing, or at
least it is something
that we shouldn't ignore,
or think that it's not real,
is to get people to
experience it individually.
But that's a tough one
too, because there's
so much cultural baggage.
If somebody has a
weird experience,
what basket do you think
they're going to put it in?
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: Oh, it's aliens
coming from other planets.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: And that's hard to--
it's hard to get that idea out
of people's mind.
I had a guy in my show,
Jeff Ritzmann and he said,
there is a way to have-- and
this is separate from the CE-5
Steven Greer stuff--
>> REGINA: Explain what
CE-5 protocols are.
>>BISHOP: It is a
way that they say
that they can call
in UFOs and ETs
to come and make an
appearance on command.
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: And I've
heard people tell me
that stuff has happened.
>> REGINA: [INAUDIBLE]
>>BISHOP: Like they get
lights and things like that.
>> REGINA: They do.
I've been there.
>>BISHOP: I would
love to see that.
I would like to
see it for myself.
>> REGINA: Truly not as
dramatic as you expect it to be,
but there'll be--
there often is a
little something, yeah.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, I mean, I would
love to see it for myself.
And if I did, I'm sure I'd say
that was interesting and wow,
I'd like to take this
further, but not in the way
they're telling me.
This-- my friend Jeff Ritzmann
on my show, and I said,
"So if you think we should
be doing this ourselves,
which I think, on a
very democratic level--"
there was a story in a Whitley
Strieber book, he said--
in the 1950s, they
were saying that--
oh, no, no.
I'm sorry.
His visitors told him--
whatever you think of Strieber.
I like him.
I like his ideas.
It's like being an artist
and playing with ideas,
because he is an
artist, as a writer.
But he said that the idea was--
from his visitors, he said,
the most democratic way
possible-- contact people
individually and have
their individual reactions be
the disclosure or the contact,
or whatever you want to call it.
So I went--
I was asking Jeff this.
I said, "Well, what do you do?"
He said, "Well, I
do have a method,
I probably shouldn't
talk about it."
"Well, why not, Jeff?"
"Well, it might-- something--
something wrong might--
It's almost like playing
with a Ouija board.
People say calling in things
you don't understand."
And I said, "We're
adults here, Jeff.
If somebody has a problem and
they come back and blame us
for it, what are
they, five years old?
You can make your own decision."
>> REGINA: Right.
>>BISHOP: So I said, "So spill.
What do you do?"
He said, "Go out to a place--
a dark place in the country at
the same time every evening--
maybe not too late.
Set aside time for
this and imagine
what might-- what you
might want to see.
Whatever it might be.
Ask yourself why
you're out there.
Very, very-- ask--
your own motivations--
you just have to be
aware of that, too."
>> REGINA: That's
very intelligent.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
And he said-- I said,
"So what happens?"
He said, "About 40%
to 60% of the time,
whoever I'm talking
to, something happens.
And it's never what they
expect, and it's never--
never happens when they
think it's going to happen."
It's like hauntings, you know.
If you're sitting there waiting
for something to happen,
doesn't happen.
When you're walking
down the hall,
then a glass flies
in front of you.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: So I said, "Well,
so what, for example?"
He said, "Well,
somebody was saying
I want to see a big ship
come with all these lights."
They do that for four,
five, six, eight, 10 nights.
And then on the
11th night, he says
a big black shape goes
across their field of vision,
and they go, whoa.
And he said that's the
kind of stuff that happens.
And at this
conference in Roswell,
I was with a group of
people who were saying,
no, well this-- you don't
know what you're calling up.
It could be demonic
and all this.
And I said, OK, I'm going
to quote Jacques Vallee.
He was speaking to Jerome
Clark many years ago--
I think in the '90s
in an interview,
and he said, "You
can study volcanoes
all you want from 10 miles
away, but you're never
going to learn
everything there is
to know about volcanoes unless
you go up and stand next to it
once in a while."
>> REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
>>BISHOP: So-- and then I
get the further argument
from people.
"Well, aren't you opening
the door to something
that might harm people?"
And all this.
And I said, you--
I said, only certain people
should probably be doing this,
and I think they probably
know who they are.
For an example, you wouldn't
send just anybody to the moon,
but you would send
Neil Armstrong,
because he has the training,
he knows what he's doing,
he can handle the pressure,
and he's uniquely qualified
to do something like that.
That's what I think
should be happening,
and if you can get to that
point and spread this to people
and get them to experience
something for themselves
without putting a
meaning on it, I
think that will start to
grow some sort of awareness.
And then no matter what
the news says, or no matter
what a skeptic
says, or no matter
what a scientist who thinks they
know without looking into it
themselves that, it doesn't
make any difference anymore,
because people that have had
the thing happen to them,
you can't tell them it
didn't happen to them.
Something happened, definitely,
that doesn't make any sense
and they have to make
sense of it in their lives.
>> REGINA: That makes sense,
and that's really what's kind
of fun about James
Gilliland's place--
every now and then in the summer
when he has a group together,
people get together and they
put their intention out,
and some pretty
crazy stuff happens.
And they capture it on camera.
>>BISHOP: Yeah, I talked
to somebody that just went.
>> REGINA: Yeah, and it's
always fun because it seems that
it's almost a
festive atmosphere.
It's not terribly serious.
You just-- you're out there.
You've already done your
marshmallow roasting
or whatever you're going to do.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And you
have kids and families,
and it seems like he does end
up kind of attracting a certain
amount of kind of almost happy--
kind of happy observations
where flashing lights
and coming in close.
>>BISHOP: I want to go there.
I want to see that.
I think he's probably built too
much of his ego up around it,
although that doesn't--
it doesn't cover up the fact
that people see things there.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>>BISHOP: I talked to a
MUFON representative who
recently resigned
from MUFON, and he
says, "I've been there before.
There have been lights there
since before he was even
there."
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: That is-- it's a
place like the Marfa lights are
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> REGINA: Well, as--
Mt.
Adams.
And he says he's there
because it is Mt.
Adams, that it seems
to be attracting
these particular vehicles
and entities, whatever.
And so yeah, I'd encourage it.
It's a fun experience.
>>BISHOP: I also like to
talk to different people.
I like to talk to a
very skeptical person.
I like to talk to somebody who
totally believes that there's
aliens coming here.
I like to talk to somebody
that has no idea, just to see--
and they all see the same thing.
I want to see what their
descriptions of it are.
Because I think
it really depends
on psychedelic set and setting.
What do you bring
to the experience
and how does that affect what
you see and what you remember?
And what what's happening when
the experience is going on?
>> REGINA: Spoken as
a true researcher.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: What about the
whole thing with night goggles?
Night vision goggles, military?
Where people see incredibly
strange things through those?
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
I've never had the
chance to do that.
But I've seen the images.
I've seen pictures.
And weird things show up.
I don't know what they are.
They might have to do with
the secret space program thing
that I think is blown
way out of proportion.
I'm sure there's
things in space.
We don't know about
that the government
and other governments
have launched.
There's got to be.
I mean, if you could do that
and you could have an advantage
and not tell anybody,
of course you'd do it.
But the thing is that too
many assumptions, I think,
are made about that.
And I think some of what these
people are seeing, obviously,
are these things that they don't
normally want people to see.
But they were launching them
before people had night vision
and were able to
see these things.
And they're just going
to be silent about it.
And they're going to
have to figure out
a way to cover them up
now people can see them
with night vision.
>> REGINA: I was going to say,
that's what's interesting is
the lid's kind of blown off.
>>BISHOP: Or it's important
that some people do see them.
That might be part of--
that might be useful as well.
>> REGINA: Because there will
be certain inquiring minds
and minds that know how to
interpret that can start
bringing a new part
of the story together.
It's fascinating.
>>BISHOP: Well, you're right.
But I was saying from the
government's point of view,
OK, let some of
this stuff get out.
Let's see what
they say about it.
Let's see what the person
from another government says.
Let's see what China says.
Let's see what Russia says.
Let's see what they're-- now
that it's kind of an open
secret, let's use
that to our advantage.
>> REGINA: Well, yeah.
Night goggles.
I live in Sedona, so UFO
viewing is part of the culture.
It's a nighttime
activity option.
There was one film
I saw years ago
that you may have
seen, "The Secret Space
Transmissions" with--
I think it was Martyn--
Martyn Stubbs.
>>BISHOP: Really?
Never seen it.
>> REGINA: Oh it is--
>>BISHOP: Great.
Now I've got to watch that.
>> REGINA: Now you
have to watch it.
It's fascinating
if you can find it.
The quality's not that great.
But during one of the missions--
I don't remember which
mission it was, honestly,
space mission.
He was working at a
public access TV station,
I believe in Vancouver.
It was in BC, Canada.
And he started pulling in the
signal from NASA accidentally.
And he started
recording everything.
And when you look at
that, I mean, to me,
I think everybody
should watch it.
It's really fun and
fascinating when
you see just the bizarre-looking
stuff that was shown.
All of it then, anything
that was shown to the public,
of course, as other
testimony, disclosure,
that stuff's scrubbed.
Images are scrubbed.
And there are teams of people
that are there to do that.
So you would never
see these odd shapes,
massive cigars
floating through space,
all kinds of weird stuff.
>>BISHOP: I'd like to see it.
I mean, I've seen a lot of these
videos and, to me, most of it
can be put down to stuff
floating close of the camera.
But there's other things,
like the thing that
comes up through the clouds.
It's the launch from
wherever it was,
South America, then it
shoots off into space.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>>BISHOP: I don't
know about that one.
That one's very strange to me.
I don't know if it's aliens or
a secret space program or what.
But it's anomalous and very
strange and interesting.
>> REGINA: And so I mean, I
think it's wonderful to have
a childlike curiosity and be
open to all of these things.
I don't like the implications of
manipulating human perception.
That's really what
I'm interested.
So this is a good time to
get into Paul Bennewitz now,
kind of backtracking
a little bit.
And you already talked
about him with Moore.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
The book project beta
was about Paul Bennewitz.
And the upshot of it was that he
was encouraged in his delusions
about what he was seeing
near a military base
and secret projects, to
the point where he ended up
in his family put him
in a mental health
facility for a while,
for about three months.
What it was was he was
basically seeing things
at Kirtland Air Force Base,
where secret things were
being tested all the time.
I think they still are.
Reported it to the Air Force.
The Air Force was very
interested because, well,
what's he looking at?
What's he telling--
who is he talking to?
That was a very important one.
And let's start in
relationship with him,
keep him in our confidence
so he can tell us
exactly what he's doing,
exactly what he's saying.
And we can keep track
on who he's talking to
and what they're saying.
What happened was he kept
saying, I think this is aliens,
and getting a little
bit more and more
ridiculous with the
stories, more outlandish.
And the Air Force never
told him to back off.
They just kept encouraging
him because they
didn't want anybody to
really take him seriously.
However, the people that
did take him seriously, they
really wanted to know about
because they were probably
people that we're
trying to figure out
what was going on at the
base, like foreign nationals
and spies.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
And also it's kind of--
and it is one thought, and I
think a legitimate thought,
that if you're going
to have UFO activity,
the greatest saturation
would and should
be around military bases.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: As a matter
of nothing else,
of curiosity as to what's going
on and what the implications
are, especially since
we're rather aggressive.
>>BISHOP: Oh, I
see what you mean.
Yeah.
The high incidence
of UFO sightings
around military bases.
You can go a couple of ways
with that-- either one,
what you just said, or two,
there's a lot of weird stuff we
don't know that's being
developed and they're--
>> REGINA: And they're
generating both.
>>BISHOP: Perfectly
happy to let everybody
think that it's aliens
from other planets.
>> REGINA: And I think it's
probably a combination of both.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
I mean, I think it
probably is too.
Although I will reiterate
that I do not know what
UFOs are and I do not
know what controls them
or anything like that.
And I actively fight
any belief system
that I might have
that creeps in.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK, there you go.
>>BISHOP: I have militant
agnosticism about it.
>> REGINA: Keep it pure.
So Bennewitz was kind
of going off the rails.
And what was he known for
in terms of his revelations
to the public?
>>BISHOP: A lot of the--
the book, the
subtitle of the book
was "The Creation of
a Modern UFO Myth."
People will often say
the creation of "the."
It's like, what are you saying?
All UFOs are myths?
I was like, no.
It says "a"," not "the."
The point was that
a lot of the stories
about underground bases,
about abductions in exchange
for technology, partially the
cattle mutilation mystery, all
began with operations with
and against and involving
Paul Bennewitz.
And this was in the
late '70s, early '80s.
>> REGINA: He was
disseminating all of that.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And he was being
given that by intelligence
as disinformation?
>>BISHOP: Mostly his ideas,
some of it was either supported,
and a very small
amount, I, think
was given to him, especially
a computer that he had.
And this was in the
late '70s, early '80s.
There were no computers.
>> REGINA: No, not
personal, anyhow.
>>BISHOP: He was an
electrical engineer.
He built his computers.
He built the software
into the computers
because you couldn't load
software on a computer.
The computer was made
for one task only.
And you had to build
that task into it.
A lot of the stories
that are still prevalent
now about underground bases,
about abductions in exchange
for technology, even some of
the cattle mutilation stuff
had its genesis during
the Paul Bennewitz events
in the late '70s, early '80s.
>> REGINA: So how much of
that was, do you think,
planted information for him
to disinform from the public
versus real?
>>BISHOP: It wasn't to
disinform the public.
It was to disinform
Paul Bennewitz,
so that he can remain
confused yet still interested
and tell them what
he was seeing.
>> REGINA: I see.
But it caught hold.
>>BISHOP: It did
catch hold, but they
didn't expect that to happen.
They were just doing it for
Paul Bennewitz and everybody
who knew.
>> REGINA: To make
him sound nutty.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
Well, he was nutty
to begin with.
But they just encouraged it.
And like I said, this was
an unethical thing to do.
I don't agree with it.
And just because
I reported on it
doesn't mean I
think it was right.
Even Bill Moore
admits at this point,
and Richard Doughty, who was one
of the people at the Air Force,
also says he feels
really bad about what
happened to Bennewitz.
And that they were
doing this to protect
secret programs at the base.
Me, them, and everybody else
thinks they went probably
a little bit too far with that.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>>BISHOP: They even
went to the point
of, when they really wanted
to take his attention away
from the base, they flew
him up to near Dulce, which
is a famous area, to look at
some stuff they had placed up
on a hill to just basically
draw his attention away
from the base,
saying, look, Paul.
I think there's something
very interesting here.
And this actually did
happen because Bennewitz
came back and told people,
researchers that were not
in the Air Force or intel, such
as Gabe Valdez, the New Mexico
State policeman, the
late Gabe Valdez,
just encouraging his
attention away from the base.
The funny thing is when
he was up there flying
around looking at
it one time, he
saw something that
had crashed there.
And it just happened to
crash right in that area
where they showed him.
And he was a pilot,
a private pilot,
so he was out there taking
pictures with a nice, very
big, very clear picture camera.
And none of those
pictures survived
because somebody came into
his house and took them all.
>> REGINA: That's
always the story.
That always seems
to be the story.
What about, though-- let's go to
underground bases for a moment.
We have about 10 minutes left.
I'll ask you a few
more questions.
But the whole Phil Schneider
story, for example, and I
remember going to one--
I don't even remember
which conference it was.
And there was an
engineer there, who
was just kind of dry in his
presentation with his slide
show about how this tunneling
technology works and how--
>>BISHOP: Richard Sauder?
>> REGINA: Was it
Richard Sauder?
It may have been.
>>BISHOP: He wrote a book
called "Underground Bases
and Tunnels," and
wrote a second one.
I used it as a source.
>> REGINA: It must be
him because I remember--
that name sounds familiar.
I'm terrible with names,
but that sounds familiar.
>>BISHOP: S-A-U-D-E-R, yeah.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Just an engineer, just
explained this is how we do it,
this is the
technology used, this
is how far we can tell each day.
And he was just
explaining how they do it.
>>BISHOP: These are
all open sources, too.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>>BISHOP: And these were
open sources 20 years ago.
>> REGINA: And we know Jesse
Ventura in "Conspiracy Theory,"
right?
Going to the underground
base under the Denver airport
and all of that,
with the guards.
And so I think it's--
I mean, to me it certainly
seems whatever the agenda is
and what's going on
under there, they
seem to exist, just by
open-- like you say,
open source information.
But what about Phil
Schneider, where
there's an alien interface
with these bases?
>>BISHOP: I don't know what
to make of Phil Schneider.
I talked to some people that--
law enforcement people that
were contacted after he died.
His girlfriend or his
wife or whoever it was--
>> REGINA: She wanted an
investigation into his death.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
And she sent a bunch
of information to him.
And he said none
of it checked out.
And he went to law enforcement,
other law enforcement,
said here's what
she's telling me.
Can you send me these
records or show them to me?
>> REGINA: Yeah, because he
claimed that he was involved
in the field of explosives,
in the foundational work
of the creation of I
don't know, however many--
a lot of these bases.
And he said at the
time, which was--
>>BISHOP: He very
well may have been.
The stuff that was questionable
was about the circumstances
of his death.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Well, about the tubing being
wrapped around his neck
as a suicide, when he was
trying to get out and tell
this story every day.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
He said that that
stuff didn't check out
and it was basically,
definitely a suicide.
And it didn't look to him like
somebody else had done it.
And then the other thing
is, on top of that,
what he's talking
about, there's--
>> REGINA: He was
talking about aliens,
[INAUDIBLE] in military,
firefights at Dulce
underground, and so forth.
>>BISHOP: Exactly.
>> REGINA: He's not
the only person.
>>BISHOP: There is no way
to prove that happened
except for that he said it.
It very well may have, and
maybe he knew about this.
But it's so covered up
with other people's stories
and rumors and all
that, that I think--
>> REGINA: And this
is the case a lot.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
At this point, I
think it's whoever,
wherever that story came from,
I think it was just planted just
for the same way Bennewitz's
story was planted,
just to get people interested
in a way that made no sense.
So the only people that
would be interested
were either UFO researchers
or foreign nationals
that we're trying to find
out about underground bases.
And there certainly are
underground facilities
everywhere, maybe even
near Dulce, New Mexico.
Before he died, Gabe told me--
Gabe Valdez said, I'll take
you to where that entrance is.
I said, I would
really like to see it.
He said it's dynamited and it's
covered with rocks and stuff
now.
But you could really tell that
there was something there,
not operational anymore.
And he thought it was--
and this is totally insane,
but it sounds James Bond-ish.
He said the best thing
he could think of
was that it was an
aircraft testing
facility inside a mountain.
Because it's the
last place you expect
to see aircraft
coming in and out.
And Bennewitz said
he saw aircraft
coming in out of the mountain.
It would disappear
into the mountain.
And it's just like, how did
it fly into the mountain?
He thought there might have
been some kind of opening there
and things would fly into it.
Because it makes no
sense whatsoever.
Usually you're going have
a runway or something.
No.
He flew inside the mountain.
>> REGINA: Not with exotic
technologies, anyway.
>>BISHOP: So I don't have
any way to prove that either,
but it seems more
likely to me than there
was an underground
base with aliens.
>> REGINA: Well, thanks
for yet another rumor.
Appreciate it.
Also--
>>BISHOP: It's always
what's more likely to me.
>> REGINA: It was
more-- it's logic.
I get that.
But let's talk,
before we wrap it up,
let's talk a little bit
about the people who
are former spooks
who come out and say,
hey, I was a former
spook and-- like
Ed Dames, John Alexander,
and what their roles are
and how you perceive them.
And the whole notion
that the kill shot.
>>BISHOP: Oh, is it about the
sun erupting somehow and then
wiping out all--
>> REGINA: We're all dead.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
Exactly.
In the '90s I interviewed
four or five remote viewers.
And I asked about Ed Dames.
Off the record,
not in my magazine,
they said he subscribed
at that point
to all kinds of
scientific journals.
They talk about stuff
in those journals way
before it had a normal press.
So the thing is that a lot of
his predictions they thought
came from him reading
the scientific journals.
And of course that stuff's
going to come out eventually,
because a lot of that scientific
research, if it pans out
becomes popular or
it becomes relevant,
it gets into the
mainstream news.
>> REGINA: Well, and it's
interesting about remote
viewing in general.
This brings in-- because
the CIA uses remote viewing
and military-- and
Russia, United States,
a lot of governments
use remote viewing.
It's fascinating
because, when you're
talking about those
areas of the mind,
there is kind of
abstract remote viewing,
and then there's
technical remote viewing.
I've been involved
in remote viewing
even in a classroom
level, where you
have 90 seconds to
ascertain what's
sitting in a box in
the front of the room
and then they show it to you.
So you're actually connecting
with the intelligence
or information of
what's in that box.
But if you're doing
something more abstract,
your mind is also totally
open to infiltration
of thoughts and ideas and
images from other forces, even
other military forces.
So how do you even claim
sovereignty and accuracy
anymore in the field
of remote viewing?
And I ask that because, as you
say, Ed Dames could've been--
they could have
been remote viewing.
He could have been
seeing things that
were literally put there for
his amusement or information.
>>BISHOP: I suppose-- I'm
not saying Ed Dames was--
>> REGINA: I like Ed.
I've interviewed him.
>>BISHOP: I'm not saying
that he was doing this
because-- and that he
was not a remote viewer.
I think he did have experiences,
and he knew what he was doing
and knew how to teach it.
The thing is his
ego gets in the way.
>> REGINA: It's true, but
that's true of almost everyone
we've mentioned.
>>BISHOP: It is, and also it's--
not to disparage
anybody else anymore,
I talked to a lot of
these remote viewers.
I believe they are telling
me the truth about what
happened to them.
And the reason I believe it
is because, once again, I
had personal experience
with it, just like you have.
I did an exercise.
It was in Joe McMoneagle's
book, in "Mind Trek," I think.
And it worked great.
A friend of mine and I guessed
almost exactly what each of us
had hidden in our houses.
There's no way I--
>> REGINA: And the thing is
that is our birthright as human
beings.
We all have that built-in
capability anyway.
>>BISHOP: To some degree.
>> REGINA: But we can also be
manipulated via that very same
faculty.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
I think there may
be ways to block it.
I think Lyn Buchanan
has talked about that.
There may be ways to
block that influence.
I don't know what they are.
If you ever get to talk to
him or talk to him again--
>> REGINA: Yeah, no.
That sounds good.
>>BISHOP: Ask him about that.
>> REGINA: OK.
>>BISHOP: I've heard that from
him and some other people too.
And the thing is,
once again, once you
have that personal
experience with something,
people can come to you
and BS all they want.
But it's happened
to you, and it's
happened to me multiple
times in different ways.
>> REGINA: I agree with you.
>>BISHOP: So apart from the
fact that these guys all
seem sincere, they are very
nice, extremely intelligent,
and knew about a lot of other
things besides remote viewing,
I am willing to
accept that it works.
And also it goes
along with thousands
of years of history of people
being able to see things.
>> REGINA: Oracles and so forth.
Well, one of the
things he told me
after we finished our interview,
I found really interesting.
I don't think it was on camera.
But he was talking
about some beings
that he and his team
of remote viewers
were seeing in
another dimension.
And it was this
elephantine kind of being
who seemed to be benign,
if not even helpful.
And I immediately
popped to mind--
the image of Ganesha
popped into my mind.
And I thought, isn't
that interesting
where some of these
ancient archetypal stories
and traditions have come from?
From that very field these guys
are looking into, not knowing
what they're seeing.
But they can see it.
>>BISHOP: Right.
>> REGINA: Not understanding it.
>>BISHOP: They may
be able to hook
into some archetypal
dimension where
that becomes what they see.
I think there's a lot to be
said for what people expect,
what things have been
encoded in human history,
and how that might be
accessible to everybody.
>> REGINA: I agree
with you on that,
including the
whole UFO ET story.
One final question
because we're out of time.
Who do you think-- who do you
particularly appreciate out
there right now,
that you think has
an intelligent, common sense
approach to UFO research?
>>BISHOP: Just about
everybody in that book
that I was recently
published in called
"UFOs, Reframing the Debate."
>> REGINA: OK.
>>BISHOP: Yeah.
Chris Rutkowski, Miles
Lewis, Jack Brewer--
god, who else is in there.
But if you check
that book out, I've
talked to people
that have basically
given up on UFO study.
And they said, I
saw that book and it
made me feel like, oh,
I think we can go ahead
with this because these
ideas are either new to them
or they haven't been
brought up in a long time,
and it gives them hope.
And being involved with that
book really gave me hope, too.
>> REGINA: Oh, I want to do
another interview on that one.
OK?
Thank you so much, Greg.
Appreciate you being here.
>>BISHOP: Thank you.
>> REGINA: Greg's book of essays
is titled, "It Defies Language"
and you can find it in
all the normal places.
Meanwhile, you might
also enjoy my interview
with Ken Cherry in
the Gaia archives.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us on "Open Minds."